Let's try to get this thing in here and
saved, let's think about how we gonna save
it actually,
there's some behavioral stuff here.
Okay, so we have the save function
now inside the editor, here we go.
We have the save function now,
but when do we save it?
How would you say, how would anybody
save this if you were making this,
how would you have this be, yeah?
>> I mean, I'd probably wanna link it to
a button just because you wouldn't want
somebody to accidentally backspace
their entire text area or
actually paste something over it and
then lose their entry cuz it's
automatically patched through.
I'd want there to be some user validation.
>> So a manual button where you hit save?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay, that works, anybody else?
>> CRDTs obviously [LAUGH].
>> [LAUGH] Sure we
definitely not doing that.
>> How long is this workshop?
>> Yeah.
>> Not long enough for that.
>> I would do either yeah button or
maybe an on key up but
checking what the key is to
avoid something like that.
Maybe both the pros,
those have pros and cons.
>> Yeah, everything's a trade-off.
Yeah, it's like finest line between
a good user experience of this,
it's just working but also being
able to unstuck yourself if you just
accidentally backspaced or did something.
So, having good history,
there really is no right answer.
In this course we're gonna do autosave, so
this is going to save automatically for
you.
But it's not gonna be looking at key
structures or anything like that,
this is going to do it by state.
It's gonna detect when state changes and
try to debounce from that versus
looking at the keystrokes.
It's not perfect but
it took me five minutes to make.
So, it's gonna [LAUGH] be
a five-minute solution.
>> [LAUGH]
>> So, it is a good rough draft,
it's like just hey, I put that PR up
there, don't look at it yet though.
It's just up there though, don't look,
I just want you to know it's there.
But if you do look, let me know,
it's one of those vibes, cool.
So, in order to do that I was just gonna
just create the auto save hook from
scratch and I did, and then I realized
it's a two-hour lecture on doing that.
So, I just found a package
that did almost what I wanted.
So, we're gonna install that and
I believe,
I forgot the name of the package
now I got to go look,
I believe it is called,
yeah, react dash autosave.
So, let's do that npm
install react dash autosave.
And basically, what this hook does,
I can show you before we do it,
is, where's an example?
Here we go, so basically what this
hook does is you can call it,
you can give it some data to watch.
For changes, it puts that in a use effect,
I'm sure and then give it a function
to call when it detects a change and
then you can adjust the débuts on that.
So, it's pretty trivial,
but can be quite powerful.
So, that's exactly what we're gonna do and
then we can have a saving state to show
some feedback to the user that hey,
this thing is currently saving right now,
and things like that.
We won't handle edge cases like what
happens if they start typing when
it's saving and
what happens if error is out while they're
typing like we're not doing too much work.
I've did that for like years and it's soul
crushing, [LAUGH] so I want to do that.
But yeah, let's add some auto saving so
I'll say use auto save like that,
you can bring that in.
It doesn't have a return value so
it's just an object like that, and
then the data prop, so
what do we want to watch for changes?
Well of course, the value,
whenever the value changes,
because that's the thing that's
being changed on change.
And then on save, we can just run a
function here so I'm just gonna say async.
And inside here, you'll get
the value that changed, right, so
I'm just gonna put underscore value,
is the changed value.
You could just grab the value from here,
but it might be a few cycles
behind in the render cycle, so
it's not guaranteed to be up to date.
It's the same logic from
if you were to call
a set value that relied
on some other value,
this is not guaranteed to
be what you think it is.
So instead, you have to put that
in a callback like this to make
sure that you are on the current
cycle that you think you're on
cuz the reading circle
might be lagging behind.
So, we get the value there and
then on save,
we just wanna bring in our function that
we made which was called update entry.
So, let's do that, so we'll say,
yeah cool, let's get the entry or updated.
This will be a weight update entry,
it takes in an ID and some content.
So, the ID It's gonna be entry.id and
then the content it's
gotta be underscore value.
Cool, so we got that and then what do
we wanna do with this update, yes?
>> I was just gonna ask if you could
speak to underscore value really quick.
What does that pointing to,
is that pointing to the current
state of the hook on eight?
>> Yeah, so underscore value and
value are the same thing.
They both represent the value
of the text area in this case.
But the reason why we would want to
use this version of it and not this
version of it is because of just how react
does rendering and how it does batching.
If we instead use this value,
okay, I'll say this,
this function gets called whenever
autosave detects a change from this value.
So, it detects that change and
then it issues a callback on which
we can then write some code in.
That pretty much guarantees that we
have the latest version of this value,
if we use this version of it,
it might not be the latest version,
it could be a couple cycles behind.
Especially on something like a text
editor, when someone's typing really fast,
it might be a couple of keystrokes behind.
So, if you use it, it'll work but
you might have some issues there.
So, I put underscore in front of it
because it is the same thing as this,
but you can't, I don't wanna,
I mean this works to,
I don't have to put
underscore in front of it.
It will still be the same thing, I just
hate doing variable shadowing like that,
it's confusing.
Cool, any other questions?
No, okay, so we have that,
the other thing to note is that okay,
what do we do with the updated
entry when it comes back,
do we set that somewhere,
like do we put that somewhere?
No, if we did that,
it would mess things up because
if they started typing while this
was saving and then we went back and
set the text area to what to save to it
would erase everything they just typed.
So, we don't actually wanna update
the text area with an updated value.
The text area is never gonna wait
on the server to update the screen,
it's just gonna keep going, and
it's just gonna save in the background.
So yes, that does create edge cases like
what if I hit back on the page before
the autosave kicked in,
and things like that.
So, you've gotta catch those edge cases,
and there are a lot but that's what you
gotta do for a great user experience,
just gotta deal with those edge cases.
So, right now we're not gonna do
anything with it right now, but
we'll get to it in a minute.
We should have a loading state though,
let's do that so
we can know what's going on so
we can say it's loading.
SetIsLoading equals useState false and
then when this kicks off, we can say yeah,
this thing is loading and
then this thing is done we can say okay,
it's done, setIsLoading to false like so.
And then we'll just throw something really
ugly on the screen when something is
loading.
Is loading and,
Load it.
Cool, any questions so far, yes?
>> Is there any debouncing
control with autosave or
can you speak to how it would debounce?
>> Yeah, there is, what's it called,
let me see, trying to get
the name of the property that,
this is look at the doc, so
I'm trying to duck type right now use.
Use react autoSave,
it does have an ability for
you to pass in that time.
Where is it at, interval, there it is.
So, you can pass an interval.
So, the number of milliseconds
between save attempts.
So, basically the debounce attempt
by default is two seconds so
you can play around with that.
If you gonna to look at the source code,
which is something I always do on smaller
libraries like this,
it's actually really simple.
So, if you go look at
the use autosave component,
it's just doing a few use effects, right?
And it's using a use debounce hook which
is probably doing some debouncing I
would imagine, they created themselves.
And yeah, it's just watching
that data that you gave it and
it's keeping track of
the functions with a ref,
a ref is basically the same thing as state
except for it doesn't cause a re-render.
And yeah, that's it, it's actually really,
really simple how they're doing it.
So, you can take a look at it
if you wanna learn some more and
then as far as the use deep bounce,
if you wanna take a look at that,
yeah, it's literally just a set timeout.
So, it's a simple thing, but
it's very powerful for sure,
it's much simpler than what I was making,
which was five times the size of that,
I was getting crazy with it.
Okay, let's see what we broke, yeah?
So, if I start typing something and
we wait two seconds, it's gonna break or
it's gonna work,
we're gonna find out right now.
So, let's wait two seconds,
it says loading,
I didn't see an error, it looked good.
So, if I refresh and this still
stays on the page, then it worked,
looks like it did.
So that was pretty clean, that was
some notion level user experience.